{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f1\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604020202020204}Arial;}
{\f3\froman\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 05050102010706020507}Symbol;}{\f36\fswiss\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 020b0604030504040204}Tahoma;}{\f160\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f161\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f163\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f164\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f165\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}{\f166\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}
{\f167\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f168\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}{\f170\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Arial CE;}{\f171\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Arial Cyr;}{\f173\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Arial Greek;}
{\f174\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Arial Tur;}{\f175\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Arial (Hebrew);}{\f176\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Arial (Arabic);}{\f177\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Arial Baltic;}{\f178\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Arial (Vietnamese);}
{\f520\fswiss\fcharset238\fprq2 Tahoma CE;}{\f521\fswiss\fcharset204\fprq2 Tahoma Cyr;}{\f523\fswiss\fcharset161\fprq2 Tahoma Greek;}{\f524\fswiss\fcharset162\fprq2 Tahoma Tur;}{\f525\fswiss\fcharset177\fprq2 Tahoma (Hebrew);}
{\f526\fswiss\fcharset178\fprq2 Tahoma (Arabic);}{\f527\fswiss\fcharset186\fprq2 Tahoma Baltic;}{\f528\fswiss\fcharset163\fprq2 Tahoma (Vietnamese);}{\f529\fswiss\fcharset222\fprq2 Tahoma (Thai);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive 
\ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 footer;}{\*\cs16 \additive \sbasedon10 page number;}{\*\cs17 \additive \fs18 \sbasedon10 \ssemihidden 
annotation reference;}{\s18\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext18 \ssemihidden annotation text;}{\s19\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar
\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext19 header;}{\s20\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\f36\fs16\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext20 \ssemihidden \styrsid12680837 Balloon Text;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-567104762\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23
\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01*;}{\levelnumbers;}}{\listname ;}\listid-2}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-2\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel\listoverrideformat{\listlevel
\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat0\levelold\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 ?;}{\levelnumbers;}\loch\af3\hich\af3\dbch\af0\fbias0 }}\ls1}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid7686639\rsid10028354\rsid12680837\rsid14693476}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6359;}{\info{\title Inauguration of the South American Hall}{\author Daniel Zuckerbrot}{\operator Adolfo Carpio}{\creatim\yr2005\mo5\dy21\hr12\min33}{\revtim\yr2005\mo5\dy21\hr12\min42}{\printim\yr2005\mo5\dy19\hr8\min58}
{\version3}{\edmins16}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords1520}{\nofchars8667}{\*\company  }{\nofcharsws10167}{\vern24703}}\margl1440\margr1440\margt1411\margb1411 
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace120\dgvspace120\dghorigin1440\dgvorigin1411\dghshow0\dgvshow3\jcompress\viewkind4\viewscale100\nolnhtadjtbl\rsidroot12680837 \fet0
{\*\ftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12680837 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\ftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12680837 \chftnsepc 
\par }}{\*\aftnsep \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12680837 \chftnsep 
\par }}{\*\aftnsepc \pard\plain \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12680837 \chftnsepc 
\par }}\sectd \linex0\footery864\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj {\footer \pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\pvpara\phmrg\posxr\posy0\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 
{\field{\*\fldinst {\cs16\insrsid12680837 PAGE  }}{\fldrslt {\cs16\lang1024\langfe1024\noproof\insrsid14693476 4}}}{\cs16\insrsid12680837 
\par }\pard \s15\ql \li0\ri360\widctlpar\tqc\tx4320\tqr\tx8640\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin360\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs20\insrsid12680837 Silo\rquote s Talk, Inauguration, May 7, 2005\tab \tab 
\par }}{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 {\*\bkmkstart OLE_LINK1}Inauguration of the South American Hall
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
\par Dear Friends.
\par 
\par We are grateful to the thousands of people of South America for their support, and their names are engraved on the steel plaques of the great stele.
\par 
\par We are grateful to the workers, the designers, the architects}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  and the builders.
\par 
\par We are grateful to those who join us in this celebration.
\par 
\par ...And we are grateful because we are able to inaugurate this site, which is now open for personal reflection, study}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  and interchange.
\par 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0\pararsid12680837 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
At this time we should not forget the other gathering places that are taking shape and multiplying on five continents. At many of these sites, in numerous halls large and small in different parts of the world, people are listening to us}{
\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 and watching what we say and do here today, because as we know very well the words and images roll forth from these inspiring spaces to}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 virtual spaces}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  and from there they resonate through the spaces of waiting. 
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\nowidctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
\par Though today we find ourselves located in different places}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  we are filled with joy at this celebration. We are joyful because we do not}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 need to thank either governments or corporations, none of the powerful or any of the mass media. Everything at this site, as}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
at the sites in other parts of the world, has been built thanks to the efforts of the Humanist Movement and those of a group of people who, without financial speculation or calculation of personal benefit, have supported the development of our Message. 

\par 
\par It is appropriate at this time}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  therefore, to thank this great Movement by citing its ideals and fundamental proposals}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  formalized in the following six points: 
\par 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-260\li359\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin359\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
First, the Humanist Movement}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 advocates placing the human being as the central value and}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837\charrsid12680837  }{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837\charrsid12680837 concern}{\f1\fs22\ul\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837\charrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  in such a way that nothing is above the human being and no human being is above another. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-260\li359\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin359\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
Second, it affirms the equality of all people, and works so that the simple formality of "equal rights before the law" gives way to a world of equal opportunities for all. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-260\li359\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin359\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
Third, it recognizes personal and cultural diversity, affirming the characteristics proper to each human group and condemning discrimination, whether motivated by economic, racial, ethnic}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  or cultural differences. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-260\li359\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin359\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
Fourth, it encourages every tendency to develop knowledge beyond the limitations imposed by prejudices accepted as absolute and immutable truths. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-260\li359\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin359\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
Fifth, it affirms the freedom of ideas and beliefs. 
\par {\pntext\pard\plain\f3\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 \loch\af3\dbch\af0\hich\f3 \'b7\tab}}\pard \ql \fi-260\li359\ri0\nowidctlpar{\*\pn \pnlvlblt\ilvl0\ls1\pnrnot0\pnf3 {\pntxtb \'b7}}\faauto\ls1\rin0\lin359\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
Sixth, it repudiates the violence rooted in daily life in all regions of the world, not only the various forms of physical violence but all other forms of violence: economic, racial, sexual, religious, moral, and psychological.
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
\par For us, messengers of a new spirit, these six points of Humanism constitute the basis of our social doctrine and our commitment to action in the world.
\par 
\par Nevertheless, it is in our daily dealings with concrete persons and in facing the anguish of our own consciences }{\cs17\v\fs18\insrsid12680837 \'ab}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 we question ours
elves about the direction that we must give to our behavior and to our lives.
\par 
\par How can people decide about the direction of their lives when they are very far from being in control of their daily situations? How can people decide freely about the meaning o
f their lives if they are subject to needs imposed by their own bodies? How can they freely choose, enchained as they are to a system of economic urgencies\emdash 
a system of family relationships, work, and friendship that at times becomes a system of unemployment, despair, loneliness, helplessness}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
 and failed hopes? How can people freely decide on the basis of manipulated information and the mass-media-induced exaltation of antivalues that hold up as the ultimate model of}{\b\i\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 behavior the powerful, who shamelessly ex
hibit their violence, threats, abuse, arbitrariness, and lack of reason? How can people decide freely when the moral leaders of the great religions either offer justifications or remain silent in the face of genocide, holy wars, defensive wars, and preven
tive wars? 
\par 
\par The social atmosphere is so poisoned by cruelty that day by day our personal relations become more cruel, and day by day we treat ourselves with greater cruelty.
\par }{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
\par }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 It is the human beings' great fears that stop them fro
m giving life the direction and meaning longed for. Fear of poverty, of loneliness, of illness, and of death combine and become stronger in society, in human groups}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
 and in individuals. 
\par  
\par But in spite of everything...in spite of everything...in spite of these unfortunate constraints}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
 something soft as a far off sound, something light as a dawn breeze, something that begins gently is opening its way in the interior of the human being...
\par 
\par So,}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 why this hope}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
 my soul? Why this hope, that from the darkest hours of my misfortune luminously opens its way?
\par 
\par \'85..
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
\par Today we are holding this celebration, and since in some celebrations people exchange presents, I would like to give you a gift.}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 Then, cert
ainly, it will be up to you to decide whether it merits your acceptance. It consists, in fact, of the easiest and most practical recommendation I am able to offer. It is almost a like a recipe from a cookbook, but I trust you will be able to go beyond sim
ply what is indicated by the words\'85
\par 
\par In some moment of the day or night inhale a breath of air}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
 and imagine that you carry this air to your heart. Then, ask with strength for yourself and for your loved ones. Ask with strength to move away from all that brings you contradiction; ask for your life to have unity. Don't take a lot of time with}{
\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 this brief prayer, this brief asking, because it is enough that you interrupt for one brief moment what is happening in your life for this contact with your interior to g
ive clarity to your feelings and your ideas.
\par 
\par To move away from contradiction is the same as to overcome}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 hatred,}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
resentment, and the desire for revenge. To move away from contradiction is to cultivate the desire to reconcile with others and with oneself. T
o move away from contradiction is to forgive and to make amends twice-over for every wrong that you have inflicted on others.
\par 
\par This is the appropriate attitude to cultivate. Then, in the measure that time passes you will understand that what is most important is achieving a life of internal unity. This will bear fruit when what you think, feel}{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  and do go in the same direction. Life grows thanks to its internal unity and it disintegrates because of contradiction. It happens}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{
\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  then, that what you do does not simply}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
remain inside of you, but also reaches others. Therefore, when you help others to overcome pain and suffering you make your life grow and you contribute to the world. Conversely, when you increase the suffering in others, you cause your own life to d
isintegrate and you poison the world. And }{\i\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 who }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 should you help? First, those who}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
are closest to you, but your action will not end with them.
\par 
\par Learning does not stop with this \'93recipe.\'94 Rather, it begins. This recipe says that you have to ask\emdash but whom do you ask? That depends}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
on what you believe. It may be your internal god, or your guide}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
 or an inspiring and comforting image. Finally, if you don't have anyone to ask, you will also have no one to give to, and so my gift will not merit your acceptance. 
\par 
\par Later on you may reflect on what the Message explains in its Book, in its Path, and in its Experience. And then you will also be}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
able to count on true companions with whom you can begin a new life.
\par 
\par In this simple asking is also a meditation directed to your own life. And this asking and this meditation will keep on gaining force so as to be able to transform the situations of daily life. 
\par 
\par Advancing in this way}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 ,}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  perhaps one day you will grasp a signal, a signal that presents itself sometimes with errors and som
etimes with accuracy. A signal that is like a gentle hint, but that in rare moments of one's life erupts as a sacred fire, giving rise to the lovers' rapture, the artists' inspiration, the mystics' ecstasy. It is useful to note that religions as well as w
orks of art and life's great inspirations all arise from there. They are all different translations of this same signal\emdash 
but there is no reason to believe that these translations faithfully represent the world that they translate. This signal in your conscio
usness is the translation into images of that which has no images. It is the contact with the Profound in the human mind, an unfathomable depth where space is infinite and time is eternal.
\par 
\par At some moments in history an outcry arises, a heartrending call from individuals and from entire}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
nations. Then, from the Profound a signal arrives. May this signal be translated with kindness in these times, may it be translated in order to overcome pain and suffering\emdash for behind this signal are blowing the winds of great change.
\par 
\par Years ago when we announced the fall of a system, there were many who mocked; it seemed impossible to them. Then, half a world, half of a supposedly monolithic system, came crashing down.
\par 
\par But this world that fell did so without violence, demonstrating the good things that exist in people. Moreover, before disappearing, that world was well-disposed towards disarmament, and a serious work towards peace was begun. And there was no Apocalypse.
 
In half the planet the system fell, and notwithstanding the economic hardship and reorganization of structures suffered by people, there were no tragedies, no persecutions, and no genocide. How will the fall of the other half of the world take place? May 
the answer to the people's outcry be translated with kindness, may it be translated in the direction of surpassing pain and suffering.
\par 
\par As human beings we are not separate from the destiny of the world. Let us orient our lives in the direction of internal u
nity, let us orient our lives in the direction of surpassing contradictions, and let us orient our lives toward surpassing pain and suffering in ourselves and those around us, wherever we may act.
\par 
\par May our lives grow surpassing pain and suffering. May our lives}{\b\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  }{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 advance making the lives of others advance.
\par 
\par On this day of celebration I would like to give very warm greetings to all those present here, and also to those who, though very far away in space, find themselves in communication with us.
\par 
\par }\pard \qr \li0\ri0\widctlpar\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 La Reja. 7}{\f1\fs22\cf1\super\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 th}{\f1\fs22\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837  of May, 2005 }{\fs20\cf1\cgrid0\insrsid12680837 
{\*\bkmkend OLE_LINK1}
\par }}